# MUIP-0000: Mugraph

This is not a Improvement Proposal per se, but a theoretical background on Mugraph, what it is, and what it means to achieve.

## Table of Contents

* [ ] Introduction
* [ ] Concepts
    - [ ] Overlay Networks
    - [ ] Digital Cash/ECash
    - [ ] Blind Signatures
* [ ] Architecture
    - [ ] Threat model
        - [ ] User has not compromised their own keys.
    - [ ] Topology
        - [ ] A network is called a Galaxy, and is made of N nodes.
        - [ ] Those N nodes collaborate to handle M hydra heads at once.
        - [ ] Users commit funds through incremental commits
        - [ ] Users decommit funds through incremental decommits
        - [ ] notes define origin head, but users could be paid/decommitted through any live head
        - [ ] heads could be geo-located for speed

## Introduction

Mugraph is an [Overlay Network]() for Cardano Native Assets, where a network of nodes (a **Galaxy**) behave as sequencers for user funds, contained inside smart contract vaults on [Hydra Heads](https://hydra.family). Nodes accrue transaction fees on user deposits and withdrawals from any of those heads, and share the responsiblitity of relaying user transactions to all other nodes in the same network while agreeing on a single, consistent transaction ordering between them, effectively preventing double spends.

In return, users can send and receive funds from any other user in the same Galaxy, anonymously and instantly.

## Digital Cash

TODO.

- [ ] Put law about digital cash for the US

## Blind Signatures

Anonimity/untraceability of transactions in Mugraph are ensured by a signature scheme called **Blind Signatures**, first described by David Chaum in his paper [Blind Signatures for Untraceable Payments](https://sceweb.sce.uhcl.edu/yang/teaching/csci5234WebSecurityFall2011/Chaum-blind-signatures.PDF). It is believed to be the first proposed cryptocurrency scheme.

Chaum defines *untraceability* in a very specific way:

1. Inability of third parties to determine payee, time or amounts of payments made by an individual.
2. Ability of individuals to provide proof of payment, or to determine the identity of the payee under exceptional circunstances.
3. Ability to stop use of payment media reported as stolen.

* [ ] Talk about our own implementation based on https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/1676

## Architecture

TODO.
